CS201 ASSIGNMENT 2 INSTRUCTIONS
-------------------------------

Remember that you only need to do one of the assignments below.

In each of these assignments, you will be asked to write a "math library"
function. You will be writing the function in assembly language, using gcc's
inline assembler. Class code files asm.c and cpuid.c are good models for how to
write assembly code for gcc.

You can use a mixture of C code and assembly code for these assignments, but all
floating point calculations (including comparisons) must be done in assembly
language. You should use C only for support tasks like defining and initializing
local variables, returning a value from the function, etc.

Your assembly code should work in the following way:

    1. Load values from the function's arguments and local variables onto the
        floating point stack (local variables can be initialized first by C code
        as long as no calculations are performed).
    2. Perform the required calculation entirely within the floating point
        stack. Using stack comments in this code will help you keep track of
        what's going on. (A stack comment is a comment that specifies what is
        supposed to be on the floating point stack after that instruction has
        executed. Or you can write stack comments to specify the situation
        before the instruction executes if you prefer.)
    3. Store the calculated result from the floating point stack to a local
        variable
    4. Return that the value of that local variable with a C 'return' statement.

The IA-32 Architecture includes the floating point instructions needed to
implement these functions (they all start with the letter 'F'). You will save
yourself a lot of work if you carefully choose the right instructions. This is a
large and powerful instruction set, and you should make use of that power
instead of "re-inventing the wheel." In other words, don't spend a lot of time
writing a lot of dumb code. Instead, spend your time thinking first, and you
will be able to write a smaller amount of smart code.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

REGULAR VERSION

Compute the volume of a sphere according to the formula (4*pi^3)/3
(^ means exponentiation - in this case that would be pi to the 3rd power).

In sphereVolumeC(), write assembly code that gets the value of p from the chip
instead of using the provided constant. Do not change anything else about this
function.

In sphereVolume(), write assembly code that calculates the value of the formula.

Start with the provided code file a02.c. Upload your code as a02.c.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

PREMIUM VERSION

Using the Quadratic Formula, compute one of the roots of a quadratic equation

In quadraticRoot(), write assembly code that calculates the version of the
formula that adds the square root.

Because this code calls the sqrt function from math.h, you will need to compile
it as follows:

    gcc <required flags> a02p.c -lm -o a02p

You can use file ~michael.trigoboff/bin/gclm to avoid having to type this.

Start with the provided code file a02p.c. Upload your code as a02p.c.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

REQUIRED PLATFORM

I grade your code on syccuxfas01.pcc.edu. Your code is required to compile and
run correctly on that machine.

COMPILING YOUR CODE

You are required to compile your code with the same flags that are used by
the 'gc' bash script in ~michael.trigoboff/bin.

GRADING YOUR CODE

Your code needs to compile without errors or warnings and run correctly. Code
that does not compile will receive zero points. Code that crashes will receive
zero points.

I use bash scripts to grade your code. Because of this, it is very important
that you submit your code with the file name that was requested. If you change
the file name, my scripts will crash, your work will not be graded, you will
have to resubmit a corrected version of your work, and you will lose points.

My scripts produce a log file containing your code, compiler warnings and errors
(if any), your code's output, and some statistics that are useful to me. I then
personally go through that log file to produce your grade. In other words, the
scripts don't generate your grade, they just make it more convenient for me to
generate your grade.

TO SUBMIT THIS ASSIGNMENT

Submit the requested file to Desire2Learn.   Make sure that your code prints
your name, assignment description, and number, as requested.

    * Be certain to check that you completed the upload successfully. After you
        click the Upload File button, you must also click the SUBMIT ASSIGNMENT
        button. This is very easy to forget. If you do not do this, I will not
        see your work and you will get a grade of zero for the assignment. I
        would recommend entering an email address so you can be notified that
        the upload was completed successfully.
    * You may upload as many versions as you wish prior to the due date. I will
        only see and grade the final one. You will not be able to upload
        assignments after the due date.

Points will be deducted for uploading a file with a name that is not as
specified. Every term I get a few students whose approach to following
directions is, shall we say, "creative." I encourage creativity in general, but
there are places where it is not appropriate.

